Dumps: https://www.examtopics.com/exams/amazon/aws-sysops/view/


Notes:

Create Billing Alarms in CloudWatch.
After enabling Billing Alerts in Account Preferences, we just need to create a billing alarm to trigger notifications.


Enable Billing Alerts in Account Preferences.
CloudWatch is used to monitor billing and cost metrics, BUT we are required to enable Billing Alerts in our Account Preferences before being able to create billing alerts with CloudWatch.



You can use CloudTrail log file integrity validation to determine whether a log file was modified, deleted, or unchanged after CloudTrail delivered it. Reference Documentation

Your ElastiCache for Memcached cluster is showing 98% CPU utilization, so you can add more nodes to the cluster (scale out, horizontal scaling) in order to solve the performance issue during peak hours. Memcached clusters are composed of 1 to 40 nodes. Scaling a Memcached cluster out and in is as easy as adding or removing nodes from the cluster.

Creating read replicas are designed to provide enhanced performance and durability for RDS database (DB) instances. Redundancy (High Availability) is achieved with Multi-AZ deployments. If the question proposed Aurora MySQL, this would be a valid answer. Aurora read replicas are used as failover targets and are automatically promoted when the primary instance in a cluster fails health checks but MySQL read replicas does not give automatic failover

A Gateway-Cached implementation of Storage Gateway stores all of your data in AWS and caches your frequently-accessed data on premises. Keeping all data in AWS is not a minimal AWS implementation

Imported keys must be manually rotated. Creating aliased for them will make this process easier.
Enabling automatic key rotation will allow KMS to annually rotate the keys that it generated

AWS Shield Advanced automatically alerts you to application layer attacks, including layer 7

AWS WAF (Web Application Firewall) requires you to create rules permitting certain traffic, but doesn't alert on attacks
AWS WAF (Web Application Firewall) allows you to create rules permitting certain traffic, including limiting IP traffic to certain geographical regions

Amazon Inspector checks instances for listening TCP ports that don't receive any traffic during its assessment run.

AWS Organizations uses the inverse tree architecture, which starts at the root and flows to any member or organizational unit.

The master account is not affected by a service control policy

Guardrails do allow you to set both preventative and detective controls to member accounts within Control Tower. Preventative guardrails apply to accounts with service control policies at the OU level, whether the account is enrolled or unenrolled. Detective guardrails enabled on OUs do not apply to unenrolled accounts

cloudcanines.com is a Zone Apex, so you will need to use an alias record to map the Zone Apex to the DNS name of the Elastic Load Balancer

AWS Cost Explorer has an easy-to-use interface that lets you visualize, understand, and manage your AWS costs and usage over time. However, it is not a service that enables you to create a monthly budget

You can use Use AWS Budgets to set custom budgets based on your costs, usage, reservation utilization, and reservation coverage. With AWS Budgets, you can set budgets on a recurring basis or for a specific time frame. Budget alerts can be sent to up to 10 email addresses and one Amazon SNS topic per alert. You can set budgets to alert against either actual values or forecasted values.

You cannot create custom dashboards using Cost Explorer. Cost Explorer does not allow you to display billing metrics data

You can use CloudWatch to display billing metrics by service by creating a custom dashboard and adding a widget to display the metrics



Aurora is MySQL and Postgresql compatible
Aurora and Aurora serverless are different and serverless is used when the usage is unknown

Aurora >> 2 data copies in each AZ, so 6 copies + Self healing
In Aurora if 100% CPu util and if write is causing it then scale up and read is causing issue then add read replicas


RDS - Multi AZ 
It is only used for disaster recovery and high availabilty
If you need to increase performance then add readreplicas and Multi AZ wont be helpful
When one AZ is down, the endpoint will be updated to other instance automatically
We can manually change primary DB instance in MySQL rds by rebooting the instance
backups and restore are taken from secondary instances


RDS - Read replicas
Upto 5 readreplicas can be there
Can have read replicas in Multi region
Replication is asyncronous


Site to Site VPN
Comunication between VPC and On prem network through a encrypted tunnel using IPsec
VGW is needed in VPC
Customer gateway is needed in on prem



Direct connect
PRIVATE Connection between VPC and Datacenter without internet
Available speeds 1gbps, 10gbps 100 gbps
secure and stable

ACG Test2 >>

You can use CloudWatch to display the service quotas for EC2 and configure alarms that alert you when your usage approaches a service quota

CloudWatch cannot be used to alert you based on Trusted Advisor recommendations

AWS Config enables continuous monitoring of your AWS resources, making it simple to assess, audit, and record resource configurations and changes. The AWS Config Auto Remediation feature automatically remediates noncompliant resources evaluated by AWS Config rules. Config integrates with Systems Manager to action the remediation tasks such as updating public read access settings in S3. Config also integrates with SNS to send notifications based on its findings.


Since 2017, AWS customers have been able to modify the type of EBS volume without needing to snapshot the volume. This allows you to transition between volume types, such as gp2 and io1, transparently to the underlying operating system on the EC2 instance. Prior to this, the correct procedure would have been to arrange downtime, and manually snapshot and restore the volume in the correct volume type.

The Classic Load Balancer metric SurgeQueueLength measures the total number of requests queued by your Classic Load Balancer. An increased maximum statistic for SurgeQueueLength indicates that backend systems aren't able to process incoming requests as fast as the requests are received. When requests exceed the maximum SurgeQueueLength, the SpilloverCount metric starts to measure rejected requests. The maximum SurgeQueueLength is 1024


Increasing the value of the memcached_connections_overhead parameter will reduce the amount of memory available for storing items and provide a larger buffer for connection overhead

When RDS undergoes a failover, the managed services do an update to the associated Route 53 record to ensure the RDS DNS endpoint points to the new primary host after the failover. The old host becomes a standby while the issue is addressed, and if it's not easily fixable, the standby instance is replaced

S3 Intelligent-Tiering is designed for objects with unknown or unpredictable access patterns

CloudFormation StackSets enable you to create, update, or delete stacks across multiple accounts and Regions with a single operation

Patch Manager automate the process of patching managed instances with both security related and other types of updates. You can use Patch Manager to apply patches for both operating systems and applications. 

The following policy types are available for use in AWS: identity-based policies, resource-based policies, permissions boundaries, organizations SCPs, access control lists (ACLs), and session policies.

CloudHSM is a cloud-based hardware security module (HSM) that enables you to easily generate and use your own encryption keys on the AWS Cloud. CloudHSM supports asymmetric keys (a different key is used to encrypt and decrypt the data). Inspector and Trusted Advisor are not encryption services. S3 encryption does not manage encryption keys

AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity returns a set of temporary credentials (access key ID, secret access key, and security token) that give temporary access to AWS services.

AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity returns a set of temporary credentials, giving the user temporary access to AWS. It also returns an Amazon Resource Name (ARN) and the assumed role ID, which are identifiers that you can use to refer to the temporary security credentials

Federated identity allows users to log in to an external identity provider, receive an auth token, and exchange it for temporary AWS credentials

When you create an OpenSearch (ElasticSearch) cluster, you specify whether it should have a public endpoint or reside within a VPC. Once created, you cannot switch from one to the other. Instead, you must create a new cluster and either manually reindex or migrate your data

AWS Budgets allow you to create budgets based on cost, usage, reservation, and Savings Plans.

Savings Plans is a pricing model allowing discounts on committed usage for EC2 and Fargate. AWS Budget allows you to measure unused and under-utilized Savings Plans and monitor how much instance usage is covered by savings plans.
Budgets alerts are sent via email through SNS topics.

Compute Optimizer analyzes the configuration and resource utilization of your workload to identify defining characteristics. For example, if a workload is CPU or network bandwidth-intensive, if it exhibits a daily pattern, or if a workload accesses local storage frequently

AWS Compute Optimizer can recommend optimal resource configurations aligning with rightsizing recommendations to help improve cost and performance

AWS Cost Explorer provides rightsizing recommendations


Reseerved Instances >> Instance of specific instance type, OS, Tenancy is reserved for 1/3 years with upfront or no upfront payment and cant be sold in market store with other customers

Convertible Reserved Istances >> Same as above but we can change the instance types

Savings plan >> reservation based on instance family and not type and not number of instances but vCPUs

Capacity Reservation >> Will pay for reserved capacity all the time irrespective of whether it is used or not. Will just make sure that the particular instance type capacity is available for you.

SPOT REQUESTS  >> ASG for sopt instances. If one spot instance is stopped then Spot request will try to start other spot instance

SPOT FLEETS >> Combination of spot and ondemand instances based on cost, plus felxible on choosing the lowest cost instance automatically

Amazon Inspector >> For EC2 instance OS and ECR image vulnerability + Network reachbility
Guard Duty >> Inteligent threat discovery for complete AWS account using various logs like ctrail, vpc, DNS + Also protects againts crypto mining/attacks.

Macie is an service which uses machine learning to detect PII and sensitive data and send alerts.

Trusted Advisor >> Core checks >> Cost Optimization, Performance, Security, fault tolerance, Service limits
Can send week notifications and Progrmatic API access is available to Business or Enterprise plane only

AWS Artifact >> Portal that provides cx with access to aws compliance, agreements and security documentations on demand

Secrets manager >> Secret storing + Automatic rotation of secrets + usage with RDS

AWS Amplify >> Web and mobile application development

Amazon Elastic search (Open search) >> Production setup includes 3 master nodes across AZ and 2 data node per AZ which is a total of 6 data nodes

Use S3 transfer acceleration - Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration can speed up content transfers to and from Amazon S3 by as much as 50-500% for long-distance transfer of larger objects. Transfer Acceleration takes advantage of Amazon CloudFront’s globally distributed edge locations. As the data arrives at an edge location, data is routed to Amazon S3 over an optimized network path

Use AWS Data Migration - AWS Database Migration Service helps you migrate databases to AWS quickly and securely. The source database remains fully operational during the migration, minimizing downtime to applications that rely on the database. The AWS Database Migration Service can migrate your data to and from the most widely used commercial and open-source databases

Encryption can be enabelled on creation for RDS, EFS

Snowball Edge Storage Optimized is the optimal choice if you need to securely and quickly transfer dozens of terabytes to petabytes of data to AWS. It provides up to 80 TB of usable HDD storage, 40 vCPUs, 1 TB of SATA SSD storage, and up to 40 Gb network connectivity to address large scale data transfer and pre-processing use cases

Use Volume Gateway - You can configure the AWS Storage Gateway service as a Volume Gateway to present cloud-based iSCSI block storage volumes to your on-premises applications. The Volume Gateway provides either a local cache or full volumes on-premises while also storing full copies of your volumes in the AWS cloud. Volume Gateway also provides Amazon EBS Snapshots of your data for backup, disaster recovery, and migration.

You can allow only SSL connections to your RDS for PostgreSQL database instance by enabling the rds.force_ssl parameter ("0" by default) through the parameter groups page on the RDS Console or through the CLI.

By default, the health check configuration of your Auto Scaling group is set as an EC2 type that performs a status check of EC2 instances. To automate the replacement of unhealthy EC2 instances, you must change the health check type of your instance's Auto Scaling group from EC2 to ELB by using a configuration file.

File Gateway provides a seamless way to connect to the cloud in order to store application data files and backup images as durable objects in Amazon S3 cloud storage. File Gateway offers SMB or NFS-based access to data in Amazon S3 with local caching. It can be used for on-premises applications, and for Amazon EC2-based applications that need file protocol access to S3 object storage.
You can configure the AWS Storage Gateway service as a Volume Gateway to present cloud-based iSCSI block storage volumes to your on-premises applications.

The data stored on the Snowball Edge device can be copied into the S3 bucket and later transitioned into AWS Glacier via a lifecycle policy. You can't directly copy data from Snowball Edge devices into AWS Glacier.
For greater I/O performance than you can achieve with a single volume, RAID 0 can stripe multiple volumes together; for on-instance redundancy, RAID 1 can mirror two volumes together. So for the given use-case, to increase the performance, you should use RAID 0.

You should use RAID 1 when fault tolerance is more important than I/O performances
You should note that only the bucket owner (root account) can enable MFA Delete only via the AWS CLI. However, the bucket owner, the AWS account that created the bucket (root account), and all authorized IAM users can enable versioning.
Enhanced networking uses single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) to provide high-performance networking capabilities on supported instance types. SR-IOV is a method of device virtualization that provides higher I/O performance and lower CPU utilization when compared to traditional virtualized network interfaces. Enhanced networking provides higher bandwidth, higher packet per second (PPS) performance, and consistently lower inter-instance latencies. There is no additional charge for using enhanced networking.

Consider using enhanced networking for the following scenarios:

If your packets-per-second rate reaches its ceiling, consider moving to enhanced networking. If your rate reaches its ceiling, you've likely reached the upper thresholds of the virtual network interface driver.

If your throughput is near or exceeding 20K packets per second (PPS) on the VIF driver, it's a best practice to use enhanced networking.

Enhanced Monitoring for RDS provides the following OS metrics: 1.Free Memory 2.Active Memory 3.Swap Free 4.Processes Running 5.File System Used

Performance Insights collects metric data from the database engine to monitor the actual load on a database. Performance Insights will not help in gathering granular OS level metrics.

share, you can configure your gateway to encrypt your objects with AWS KMS–managed keys by using SSE-KMS.

Encrypting a volume: For cached and stored volumes, you can configure your gateway to encrypt volume data stored in the cloud with AWS KMS–managed keys by using the Storage Gateway API.

Encrypting a tape: For a virtual tape, you can configure your gateway to encrypt tape data stored in the cloud with AWS KMS–managed keys by using the Storage Gateway API.
